---
layout: post
title: "Silent No Longer"
description: ""
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Dear friends,

I am constantly besieged by the feeling that I am not doing enough. A
genocide is unfolding before our eyes. I feel the guilt with every
mother holding a starving child, with every doctor killed, with every
journalist murdered, with every child shot trying to get food. Last
week I sat in the bathroom and cried for half an hour, overwhelmed
with grief.

If this were a tragedy caused by a natural disaster - a flood or an
earthquake perhaps - it would be bad enough. But this is an
intentional, cruel and calculated attempt to destroy a people that are
viewed as less than human, less than animals even. If I were to treat
my dog the way that the Israeli Government treats the Palestinians I
would be in prison.

It is easy to fall into the trap of thinking that there is nothing we
can do. That is what they want us to think. It's true, one person on
their own will not have a large impact. But all of us together
will.

We can't all attend protests or donate money. But we can all speak
out. We can write to our elected representatives. We can talk to our
friends and family. And we can write blog posts. And it _will_ make a
difference. We have the potential to change public opinion. And the
politicians will always follow the public opinion, even if they are
sometimes slow.

For those of us that hold positions of power or influence, there is an
opportunity to make a bigger impact. At the start of Russia's invasion
of Ukraine, many companies and organisations publicly expressed
support for Ukraine, including, for example displaying the Ukrainian
flag on their website. The same has not yet happened in support of
Palestine, with a few notable exceptions including Arabic Wikipedia.

And it is for this reason that I want to write a special note to the
Mwmbl community. Mwmbl is an open source search engine that I've been
working on for a few years. You have been amazing in supporting the
work we're doing. I would love it if we could express support for
Palestine on the Mwmbl home page, stand against the genocide, and
display the Palestinian flag.

Mwmbl has always stood for the freedom of access to information, for
open source software, and for the truth. For me, this is an extension
of that. Standing up for what is right. But I don't want to take this
step without the support of the community. So I'm asking you. Please
stand with me.

With love and solidarity,

Daoud

## Acknowledgements

First I should thank my teachers from Palestine, to whom I owe an
enormous debt. Secondly, my parents, who met each other there, and
made it my spiritual home.

Finally, I'm so grateful to HasanAbi for teaching me that we can make
a difference. His unending efforts and dedication to educating us have
been an inspiration for me.

